all right I review a lot of products
right I've I've talked about hundreds
maybe thousands of products at this
point but as many videos as I've made
about products there are way more
products out there in the world that
exist so the process of selecting which
products to even review in the first
place is like an art form to itself most
products are just meh they're fine like
they exist they they get made they're
fine whatever so they have to they have
to reach a certain level of Interest or
or being really good to even be
considered for a
review or
sometimes really really bad so there's
been a lot of interesting discourse
lately on this topic there will be you
know some negative reviews and then a
company will eventually go out of
business and then the internet poses the
question do bad reviews kill companies
do bad
reviews kill companies or or do bad
products kill
companies I yeah I I do have a lot of
thoughts so two of the biggest examples
that have been pointed to especially on
Twitter were the Fisker ocean review
that I did and the Humane AI pin from a
couple days ago so the Fisker Saga was
pretty well documented but in case you
missed it I reviewed a car I had a
pretty horrible experience with it
documented it published their review on
the autofocus Channel and then a few
months later the entire company appears
to be on life support like likely filing
for bankruptcy soon and now this startup
Humane you know they dropped their first
product this pin I review it it's not
super positive a lot of people are
saying the same thing and I don't even
think Humane is going anywhere by the
way but I think there's some pretty
simple logic we can use to decipher what
the the real danger is to these
companies which is do you still get a
bunch of negative reviews and then die
as a company if the product is actually
really good but you know let's back up
for a second what is a review little pet
peeve of mine is I think people misuse
or overuse that word a lot but a review
is just somebody uses a product and then
just delivers their Impressions on
whether they think it's any good or not
how well it actually worked and if their
honest opinion is if it's good then
that's the review if it's bad that's the
review that's basically it and so I've
been a advocate of good independent
reviews for what feels like forever now
but the thing about reviews is if
they're not honest then they're
basically useless I really strongly feel
like everything that comes from a review
all the consequences and everything that
comes around it everything in the world
of an ecosystem of reviews depends on
the review being truthful and actually
honest about things so let me I'll just
give an example I've told this story
before but years ago I remember I
reviewed the first uh Razer phone when
it came out so Razer gaming company they
make lots of stuff they're getting into
smartphones for the first time so they
made a phone that appeals to the same
Target demographic of Gamers so you know
it had a bunch of upsides and downsides
obviously gaming Focus Features so it's
got like front-facing speakers and a
high refresh rate the battery was pretty
big but also the camera was weak and I
specifically I remember I the vibration
motor was horrible and I remember
calling it out I remember saying this
also the vibration motor in this phone
trash straight trash I'm going to call
myself so you can hear
this it sounds broken like it's but it
sounded that way out the box since day
one so that is the Razer phone just one
of the worst vibration Motors I've ever
experienced in a new phone so okay fast
forward a year right I'm at a briefing
it's in New York City it's for the Razer
phone 2
and so they're walking me and some other
people through this new phone they've
made and they've got a bunch of changes
it's got a glossy back they added
wireless charging now the logo glows and
like the speakers are better and all
this stuff and they're talking us
through it and then the guy turns to me
and he says and Marquez you got to try
the new vibration motor in this
phone and it's such a niche thing but I
sure enough I try it and it's way better
and that's to me what that's a big part
of what reviews are all about that
honest feedback turned into actually
action for the company to make it better
so people who bought the first one knew
what they were getting into and people
who bought the second one actually
benefited from that so that's number one
honesty obviously super important but
the second thing is these reviews are
also definitely for the people that are
watching them and consuming them so
you've probably been in the situation
when you're you're about to buy
something and you just want to double
check so you you hop on YouTube you
search it up watch a couple videos about
the product just to make sure you're not
missing anything and then you either
decide on the moment or later that day
like okay yeah I'm definitely going to
buy it we've all been there that's the
reason that's exactly how this YouTube
channel started like my first ever Tech
video was reviewing a laptop but
specifically I I bought the laptop with
my allowance money in high school and I
found a Windows Media Center remote in
the PCI slot that wasn't in any of the
other reviews so the first thing I
decided to do was talk through it in a
video so that anyone else who bought the
laptop after me would know about it so
you're thinking about buying the thing
you watch a couple reviews of the thing
you learn everything you need to know
boom success but here's where it gets a
little bit interesting I do have a bit
of an extra dimension on my hands with
these videos because I know that there's
no way that every single person watching
a review of every single product is one
of those people who was considering
buying it I get that comment actually in
personal all the time I you I watch the
reviews even though I'm not buying any
of this stuff so I know that a lot of
people in fact most people watching
these videos are actually just here to
watch an interesting
informative good video in general an an
entertaining video and so the way that I
satisfy those things is much more
subjective I think like everyone has a
different way they do it everyone has a
different Target demographic but that's
a little bit of a new dimension so then
I think if we go back to the original
question so can uh can a video be can a
video kill a company I'll use the uh
Humane and Fisker examples specifically
the Fisker ocean was a terrible car it
is a terrible car I've reviewed about 40
50 different cars in the past few years
made videos about many of them this is
the first one where I genuinely couldn't
wait to be done driving it like it just
had tons of problems bugs missing
features safety issues like it's just
bad right so I review the thing I give
people what I feel is a fair assessment
that also doubles as a warning not to
buy this bad car um so hopefully it's
entertaining and informative to the
majority of people who weren't thinking
about buying the car but also that it is
as honest as possible with the people
who are and maybe a week or two later
the company's stock price is plummeting
to an all-time low and they appear to be
like filing for bankruptcy Q the
internet going nuts which I I guess I
get it like obviously it makes a nice
headline like oh this this review came
out and it killed this company this
review bankrupted all of Fisker maybe
like there was a whole morning Brew
thread on how Fisker handled this video
so poorly that they're now going to go
bankrupt because of it also there were
there were whole stock Investments
themed channels saying this was like a
paid promoted attack against the Fisker
stock price like it got pretty crazy but
did one review killed the entire
company I would say to zoom out a bit I
would really I think it's important to
zoom out a bit actually first of all I
was not the only one to review the car
not even close and so yes the stock
price did drop after my video but the
stock was in freef Fall for many many
months before my video too and if you
zoom out on YouTube or in the car review
space in general I was far from the only
person saying these things about the car
for all of these months many other
reviewers had been having a plethora of
issues even stuff that I didn't have
with this thing actually I feel like
that might be the easiest way to tell if
a review is honest or not like we're
we're we're all reviewing the same
product basically if we all have the
same thing so we're all going to find a
lot of the same things we're all
eventually going to have a lot of the
same upsides downsides if there are
issues they may eventually surface so
yeah they're they're they're probably
going to agree with each other a bunch
of honest reviews they all say a lot of
the same stuff oh and also the in the US
the stock price there's this thing where
if a if a stock what is it if it's below
a a dollar for however many days in a
row then they'll get a warning that they
may be delisted and they have six months
to get the stock price back up over a
dollar and Fisker had just received that
notice right around the same time that
my I think right before my video came
out actually and if you're an investor
you're looking at that that's the type
of stuff that really tanks the stock
price if you're asking me and if you're
asking me personally I I literally don't
care what the stock price is of any
company of any product I review I just
don't care and so if I'm if I'm talking
about a product that will never have
anything to do with what I say about the
product and I I hope that's not true
about other people either I shouldn't
even have to say this I I'm not invested
in any companies that I cover it's just
a matter of trying to make an
informative educ ational and honest
video review that's my goal my only goal
is to do that and I don't have any duty
to any of the companies whose products I
cover it is only to the people watching
the videos so now okay fast forward to
you know pretty recently the Humane AI
pin comes out a lot of the same stuff
right like this pin has a lot of missing
promises you know the things it does it
doesn't actually do super well the
battery life is bad it overheats the
laser projector is kind of bad like the
list just goes on and on I try to be as
Fair as possible and as informative as
possible but I'm also absolutely not
about to sugarcoat or leave anything out
to protect any company's $700 device
with a monthly subscription not into
that but yet even still there are some
threads blowing up saying it's extra bad
what I did to this poor company and you
know maybe you could argue since this is
the biggest channel that covered it
maybe there's some extra impact there
but again I would say to zoom out
I just zoom out again I am not I was not
the first actually even to cover the
Humane pit but I'm also far from the
only one to talk about it and even a
little inside baseball when a product
comes out that's this notable or this
bad uh which isn't very often a lot of
reviewers like that's it's a very it's
stressful you want to make sure you get
everything right a lot of us are
literally trading notes and like trying
to figure out like when mine died in two
hours and overheated on my chest without
doing anything I thought it was like an
issue with mine and I was texting a
couple others and sure enough they're
having the same things happen to them so
we're all trying to be as as thorough as
possible and making sure reviews are
truthful and so that's how you get a
bunch of truthful reviews now you could
argue and I think the the guy on Twitter
did that the packaging was too
clickbaity and I totally get that but I
also stand by our title and thumbnail
and especially the end of the title but
keep in mind the dimension that that
that most of the people who who see this
in their feed and their subscription box
have never heard of The Humane AI pin
and this will be the first time they
hear about it and they click on it
hopefully and then they're delivered
with a thoughtful well-considered
balanced and honest and entertaining and
informative video that happens to be a
review so look I've reviewed a lot of
bad products in my day you might
remember some of them you might remember
the Dyson headphones or the red hydrogen
1 or the pixel slate or the htcu ultra
the list goes on but one thing is
definitely been clear and consistent
throughout all this which is anytime the
company goes under you don't get those
bad reviews without the product being
bad to begin with obviously I have a
massive amount of respect and
appreciation for people and groups of
people who are actually making new stuff
like Building Products that's the hard
part at the end of the day and we to get
a whole bunch of new exciting things
that might change the world and that's
really exciting but my reviews
technically are not for them all that
any honest review actually does is just
accelerate whatever was already going
on think of it that
way okay thanks for watching catch you
guys in the next one peace